It is not surprising that the futuristic dreams of the past for monorail transport have not come true.
Nowadays, monorail trains are known as lunar attractions
or short-distance carriage at airports,
or expensive, impractical projects that lead to nowhere.
Sydney, Australia, destroyed its monorail a few years ago.
Well, monorails look cool but real
to build is a terrible idea.
But in some places in the world they really work.
This is Wuppertal in Germany,
where not only have a monorail -
created more than a century ago, the suspended railway still carries
about 80 000 people over long distances.
Forget about the ideas presented at the World Fairs in the 1980s:
the construction of this began in the 19th century,
and has been constantly updated.
It looks like something coming out of "Thunderbirds".
There is a great story about how she once carried an elephant,
who panicked, fell into the river and miraculously survived.
So why are monorails such a terrible idea?
Compared with other options,
they are more expensive and unreliable.
First you need a railroad line erected above the ground.
Required is the so-called transport flooring - the entire route.
Even in rare cases, when at ground level,
you have to put huge concrete blocks on which to move
instead of ordinary rails. And taking into account the costs,
governments are basically building only one route
and if something breaks, the whole system fails,
and passengers have to evacuate from a high altitude.
You can solve the same problems with
an ordinary rail system that is being built for less money.
Or with a tram that runs on already existing roads
with rails laid on them.
Or you can use the simplest option - a bus.
But it does not look so cool.
Translation: Angel Kanchev ed. RG